README.md, before:

# GeoTrellis

[![Build Status](https://api.travis-ci.org/geotrellis/geotrellis.png)](http://travis-ci.org/geotrellis/geotrellis) [![Join the chat at https://gitter.im/geotrellis/geotrellis](https://badges.gitter.im/Join%20Chat.svg)](https://gitter.im/geotrellis/geotrellis?utm_source=badge&utm_medium=badge&utm_campaign=pr-badge&utm_content=badge)

*GeoTrellis* is a Scala library and framework for creating processes to work with raster data under the Apache 2 License.

GeoTrellis reads, writes, and operates on raster data as fast as possible. It implements many [Map Algebra](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Map_algebra) operations as well as vector to raster or raster to vector operations.

GeoTrellis provides tools to render rasters into PNGs or to convert information about the rasters into JSON. It aims to provide raster processing at web speeds (sub-10 ms) for RESTful endpoints and to provide fast batch processing of enormous rasters.

Please visit the **[project site](http://geotrellis.io)** for more information.


## Example

```scala
scala> import geotrellis.raster._
import geotrellis.raster._

scala> import geotrellis.raster.op.focal._
import geotrellis.raster.op.focal._

scala> val nd = NODATA
nd: Int = -2147483648

scala> val input = Array[Int](
     |         nd, 7, 1, 1, 3, 5, 9, 8, 2,
     |         9, 1, 1, 2, 2, 2, 4, 3, 5,
     |
     |         3, 8, 1, 3, 3, 3, 1, 2, 2,
     |         2, 4, 7, 1, nd, 1, 8, 4, 3)
input: Array[Int] = Array(-2147483648, 7, 1, 1, 3, 5, 9, 8, 2, 9, 1, 1, 2, 
2, 2, 4, 3, 5, 3, 8, 1, 3, 3, 3, 1, 2, 2, 2, 4, 7, 1, -2147483648, 1, 8, 4, 3)

scala> val iat = IntArrayTile(input, 9, 4)  // 9 and 4 here specify columns and rows
iat: geotrellis.raster.IntArrayTile = IntArrayTile([I@278434d0,9,4)

// The asciiDraw method is mostly useful when you're working with small tiles
// which can be taken in at a glance
scala> iat.asciiDraw()
res0: String =
"    ND     7     1     1     3     5     9     8     2
     9     1     1     2     2     2     4     3     5
     3     8     1     3     3     3     1     2     2
     2     4     7     1    ND     1     8     4     3

"

scala> val focalNeighborhood = Square(1)  // a 3x3 square neighborhood
focalNeighborhood: geotrellis.raster.op.focal.Square =
 O  O  O
 O  O  O
 O  O  O

scala> val meanTile = iat.focalMean(focalNeighborhood)
meanTile: geotrellis.raster.Tile = DoubleArrayTile([D@7e31c125,9,4)

scala> meanTile.getDouble(0, 0)  // Should equal (1 + 7 + 9) / 3
res1: Double = 5.666666666666667
```


## API Reference

*Scaladocs* for the latest version of the project can be found here:

[http://geotrellis.github.com/scaladocs/latest/#geotrellis.package](http://geotrellis.github.com/scaladocs/latest/#geotrellis.package)


##Contact and Support
You can find more information and talk to developers (let us know what you're working on!) at:

  - [The mailing list](https://groups.google.com/group/geotrellis-user)
  - [Gitter](https://gitter.im/geotrellis/geotrellis?utm_source=badge&utm_medium=badge&utm_campaign=pr-badge&utm_content=badge)


## Contributors

 - Josh Marcus
 - Erik Osheim
 - Rob Emanuele
 - Adam Hinz
 - Michael Tedeschi
 - Robert Cheetham
 - Justin Walgran
 - Eric J. Christeson
 - Ameet Kini
 - Mark Landry
 - Walt Chen
 - Eugene Cheipesh
 

## Contributing

Feedback and contributions to the project, no matter what kind, are always very welcome. A CLA is required for contribution, see the [CLA FAQ](https://github.com/geotrellis/geotrellis/wiki/Contributor-license-agreement-FAQ) on the wiki for more information. Please refer to the [Scala style guide](http://docs.scala-lang.org/style/) for formatting patches to the codebase.

Commit message:

Add index.md at root of project

README.md, after:

# GeoTrellis

[![Build Status](https://api.travis-ci.org/geotrellis/geotrellis.png)](http://travis-ci.org/geotrellis/geotrellis) [![Join the chat at https://gitter.im/geotrellis/geotrellis](https://badges.gitter.im/Join%20Chat.svg)](https://gitter.im/geotrellis/geotrellis?utm_source=badge&utm_medium=badge&utm_campaign=pr-badge&utm_content=badge)

*GeoTrellis* is a Scala library and framework for creating processes to work with raster data under the Apache 2 License.

GeoTrellis reads, writes, and operates on raster data as fast as possible. It implements many [Map Algebra](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Map_algebra) operations as well as vector to raster or raster to vector operations.

GeoTrellis provides tools to render rasters into PNGs or to convert information about the rasters into JSON. It aims to provide raster processing at web speeds (sub-10 ms) for RESTful endpoints and to provide fast batch processing of enormous rasters.

Please visit the **[project site](http://geotrellis.io)** for more information.


## Example

```scala
scala> import geotrellis.raster._
import geotrellis.raster._

scala> import geotrellis.raster.op.focal._
import geotrellis.raster.op.focal._

scala> val nd = NODATA
nd: Int = -2147483648

scala> val input = Array[Int](
     |         nd, 7, 1, 1, 3, 5, 9, 8, 2,
     |         9, 1, 1, 2, 2, 2, 4, 3, 5,
     |
     |         3, 8, 1, 3, 3, 3, 1, 2, 2,
     |         2, 4, 7, 1, nd, 1, 8, 4, 3)
input: Array[Int] = Array(-2147483648, 7, 1, 1, 3, 5, 9, 8, 2, 9, 1, 1, 2, 
2, 2, 4, 3, 5, 3, 8, 1, 3, 3, 3, 1, 2, 2, 2, 4, 7, 1, -2147483648, 1, 8, 4, 3)

scala> val iat = IntArrayTile(input, 9, 4)  // 9 and 4 here specify columns and rows
iat: geotrellis.raster.IntArrayTile = IntArrayTile([I@278434d0,9,4)

// The asciiDraw method is mostly useful when you're working with small tiles
// which can be taken in at a glance
scala> iat.asciiDraw()
res0: String =
"    ND     7     1     1     3     5     9     8     2
     9     1     1     2     2     2     4     3     5
     3     8     1     3     3     3     1     2     2
     2     4     7     1    ND     1     8     4     3

"

scala> val focalNeighborhood = Square(1)  // a 3x3 square neighborhood
focalNeighborhood: geotrellis.raster.op.focal.Square =
 O  O  O
 O  O  O
 O  O  O

scala> val meanTile = iat.focalMean(focalNeighborhood)
meanTile: geotrellis.raster.Tile = DoubleArrayTile([D@7e31c125,9,4)

scala> meanTile.getDouble(0, 0)  // Should equal (1 + 7 + 9) / 3
res1: Double = 5.666666666666667
```


## API Reference

*Scaladocs* for the latest version of the project can be found here:

[http://geotrellis.github.com/scaladocs/latest/#geotrellis.package](http://geotrellis.github.com/scaladocs/latest/#geotrellis.package)


##Contact and Support
You can find more information and talk to developers (let us know what you're working on!) at:

  - [The mailing list](https://groups.google.com/group/geotrellis-user)
  - [Gitter](https://gitter.im/geotrellis/geotrellis?utm_source=badge&utm_medium=badge&utm_campaign=pr-badge&utm_content=badge)

Throughout this repo, you'll find documentation which aims to clear up
confusions specific to the module in which they're found.
+ [`geotrellis.raster`](./raster/src/main/scala/geotrellis/raster)
  contains documentation about the creating and using rasters
+ [`geotrellis.vector`](./vector/src/main/scala/geotrellis/vector)
  contains documentation about creating and using vectors
+ [`geotrellis.proj4`](./proj4/src/main/scala/geotrellis/proj4) contains
  documentation about the proj4j wrapper used by GeoTrellis for
converting between projections

You can browse a full index of all source documentation in [the
index.](./INDEX.md)

## Contributors

 - Josh Marcus
 - Erik Osheim
 - Rob Emanuele
 - Adam Hinz
 - Michael Tedeschi
 - Robert Cheetham
 - Justin Walgran
 - Eric J. Christeson
 - Ameet Kini
 - Mark Landry
 - Walt Chen
 - Eugene Cheipesh

## Contributing

Feedback and contributions to the project, no matter what kind, are always very welcome. A CLA is required for contribution, see the [CLA FAQ](https://github.com/geotrellis/geotrellis/wiki/Contributor-license-agreement-FAQ) on the wiki for more information. Please refer to the [Scala style guide](http://docs.scala-lang.org/style/) for formatting patches to the codebase.
