#geotrellis.raster.op

As mentioned at the [root of `geotrellis.raster`](..), the contents of `op` are organized by type of operation. This is a brief introduction to those submodules through the lens of those operation types. Some of these types can be understood as separating concerns about how location-aware their operations need to be; keep an eye out for that.

- [`geotrellis.raster.elevation`](./elevation) defines operations which are specialized for rasters whose tile values represent the elevation of terrain. If you're interested in calculating slope or even determining how shadows fall over the land given a light source's location, this is should be of great interest.
- [`geotrellis.raster.focal`](./focal) defines operations operations which focus on two-dimensional windows of a raster's values to determine their outputs. [Conway's Game of Life](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Conway%27s_Game_of_Life) can be seen as a focal operation in that each cell's value depends on neighboring cell values. Though focal operations will tend to look at a local region of this or that cell, they should not be confused with the operations which live in `geotrellis.raster.local` - those operations encode transformations over tiles which, for any step of the calculation, need only know the input value of the specific cell for which it is calculating an output.
- [`geotrellis.raster.global`](./global) defines operations which are completely aware of all a tile's cell values.
- [`geotrellis.raster.hydrology`](./hydrology) defines operations specialized for dealing with the flow of water. If your tile encodes information used in calculations that involve water accumulation or the movement of fluids more generally, `geotrellis.raster.hydrology` is probably a good place to start building out custom operations.
- [`geotrellis.raster.local`](./local) defines operations which act on a cell without regard to its spatial relations. Need to double every cell on a tile? This is the module you'll want to explore.
- [`geotrellis.raster.stats`](./stats) defines operations for generating high level statistical analytics from your tiles. In this module, you'll find the very useful `FastMapHistogram`, which makes analyzing distributions of cell values over a tile quite simple indeed.
- [`geotrellis.raster.zonal`](./zonal) defines operations which apply over a zone (which is usually just a `geotrellis.vector.Polygon`) which you provide.