## Setting up GeoTrellis 

### Configuration
GeoTrellis has two important configuration files, the application
configuration and the catalog, which defines what geospatial data
is available.

#### Application configuration

The main application configuration allows a variety of system parameters to be set.
The configuration file should be on the classpath of your application: e.g. if using
SBT, create the configuration file at src/main/resources/application.conf.

You can also override individual configuration parameters with Java system properties, e.g.
``java -Dgeotrellis.port=5555 ...``

Example:

```
geotrellis.host = "0.0.0.0" // IP address to which the server will listen
                         // (0.0.0.0 means listen to all ports)
geotrellis.port = 8888      // The server port 
geotrellis.rest-package = "geotrellis.rest" // The package that will be searched for
                                      // for rest services
geotrellis.tmp = "/tmp"     // A temporary directory to be used for scratch files
```

#### Data catalog

The data catalog defines what data sources are available to your GeoTrellis server, and
can include metadata about the data in those sources.  Data catalogs are defined as JSON files.  GeoTrellis uses a custom format, ARG (Azavea Raster Grid), to store raster data.  ARG files have companion JSON configuration files which allows a data catalog to automatically
discover and load ARG files that are under a filesystem data directory configured in the
catalog.  For example, the following catalog.json file defines a data directory "/var/arpeggeo/data" in which any .arg32 files with accompanying .json metadata will be loaded.

```json
{
 "catalog": "my-catalog",
 "stores": [
  {
   "store": "data:fs",
   "params": {
     "type": "fs",
     "path": "/var/arpeggeo/data"
   }
  }
 ]
}
```

### Importing Raster Data

The most recent development version of GDAL (http://www.gdal.org/) can convert files from most raster formats into the
ARG format.  This is by far the best way to convert data to the ARG format that GeoTrellis uses for raster data.  Please feel
free to ask for advice on the mailing list on installing a recent version of GDAL.  We also have an AMI Ubuntu instance for EC2
with GeoTrellis and a recent version of GDAL installed. 

While not recommended, there is a script in the /scripts directory that you can use to convert raster data in
GeoTiff format to the ARG Int32 format.  It assumes that you are using a Unix shell (Linux/Mac) and have installed "wget".

For example, to convert ```your_geotiff.tif``` to ```output.arg32```, change to the
directory you've checked out the template and run:

```bash
scripts/gt_import_geotiff your_geotiff.tif output.arg32
```

The first time you run the script it will download the necessary GeoTrellis libraries to your
system.

